---
layout: page
title: The Angry Way
author: sysangrymin
categories: [updates]
excerpt: A summary of what the Angry Way means for MDC members
---

# The Angry Way
* The game system is mainly for the GM, who learns the game, builds it, and presents the completed game to the players. In this way the system functions mostly like a level editor.
* The GM should build a fair, but challenging game, then empower players with information (and more? tbd) to make choices, whereby they succeed or fail. 
* Player agency is sacrosanct, but there are different levels of agencies possible:
  * Agency to deal with a situation however they like, such as bypassing an obstacle using different methods. 
  * Agency to choose a situation, like choosing a path through the adventure. 
  * Agency to choose an adventure goal, like doing whatever the hell they want in the game.
* Building the game should be easy, in that once a GM knows what narrative or encounter elements they want it should be simple to turn that into game elements using the existing language of the system.
* Players' expression by way of their characters should be encouraged to be diverse and inventive. 
* Game-mechanic elements used by the GM should be easily and clearly comprehensible to the players once the nature of the situation is clear. e.g., "Your acid attack seems to be less effective than you're used to" should be easily understood as a damage-reduction effect as a mechanical element. 
* Player characters should be encouraged to act in a "heroic" manner.
* Characters solve problems in the form of obstacles to their goals. These problems are scaled in difficulty by adding obfuscation.
* Characters' approaches to problem solving are mechanically differentiated. 
* The information flow / state among the players and GM needs to be thought through and intentionally designed (things like the articles on insight & passive knowledge, and things like it's most satisfying when players know the number they need to hit before rolling dice).
* The problems characters face are most interesting when they are sourced from a dynamic entity with agency. 
* The rulebook needs to include (and differentiate between) instructions on how to build games using the system, and how to run games using the system.
* Encounters require a goal that is not necessarily the death of the opposition - bypassing opposition (sneaking, negotiation, etc.) or causing the opposition to flee are legit ways to complete the encounter thereby earning its attached rewards. 
* The best way to make players feel like they’re gaining in skill is to let them be bad at things for a while. 
* Don't aim for fun, aim for engagement.
* While there is no one right way to play the game, there sure are a lot of wrong ways to play the game. Inform/warn the GM about them, but don't lecture. They have the right to run their games any wrong way they want.
* Separate player-facing and GM-facing content. Allow for secrets that only the GM knows (there was this example of the secret god not mentioned in the PHB).
The game (engine) should offer meaningful choices and tradeoffs.
* Make a system that makes action adjudication easy and intuitive for the GM.
* Make the chance of success of an action/approach transparent for the player so that they may make informed decisions. (And then laugh when they fail because their plan was rubbish.)
* Don't overemphasize game balance - except maybe for spotlight balance.
* Show the GM your game's expectations: where it can be tweaked easily (e.g. CR-system in D&D5) and where you're messing at your own peril (e.g. action economy in D&D5).
* Mechanics should be modular in that specific mechanics are supported by more general mechanics. E.g. a spell (firebolt) being based on the general rules for magic (spell attack roll, resistance applies), which are based on basic action resolution mechanics (roll 1d20 + ability modifier + proficiency bonus vs DC).
* The metagame should incentivize players to take actions that support the narrative, rather than oppose it. Angry talked about this one in the Megadungeon series a lot with respect to random encounters, the adventuring day, xp and exploration. E.g. give XP for what you want the players to do more of.
* A sub point: mechanics shouldn't get in the way of the narrative. Which could simply mean telling the GM when to eschew rolls.
* Give the GM a resource that gets them started right away instead of having to buy three books just for the first adventure. E.g. adventure modules should contain all necessary monster stats.
